the war on Gaza is high on the agenda at
the Munich security conference Germany's
chancellor Olaf Schultz has spoken as
the US vice president camela Harris step
vson joins us now live from Munich so
what message are we
getting well the war on Gaza is
definitely high on the agenda here in
Munich but publicly publicly we haven't
heard much uh it's a very much discussed
behind closed doors and one of the
people involved in these uh meetings
closed doors is with me right now it's
Robert golop the prime minister of
Slovenia and Slovenia has been one of
the few EU countries who has been very
vocal against Israel's aggression in
Gaza you had bilateral meetings with the
vice president of the United States CA
Harris and with King Abdullah of Jordan
is there anything you can share with us
uh what is going on how are the
developments is there going to be a
ceasefire soon
well one thing that I want to share is
that there is a common consensus saying
that we are very worried about the
situation on the ground and that we
shall do everything we can to prevent
the attack of Rafa this is one common
understanding apart from this yes there
are there is a call outside for CE
immediate ceasefire unfortunately some
of my colleagues from the European Union
are not backing this call we will need
to do more in this regard and same goes
for humanitarian Aid we need to do
whatever we can to get more Aid on the
ground as well so from the vice
president of of the United States you
didn't get any hopeful signs that this
discussion would lead towards a
ceasefire well the problem is that you
need to discuss first and then of course
the measures can follow but now we're
really running out of time the two
things that gave me some hope is that
there was clear uh clear saying from the
uh vice president about the right to
self-determination for Palestinian
people that doesn't help immediate but
it could be a a promise a hope for the
future uh when we discuss the two-state
solution so let's hope this um you know
uh really brings to some fruition later
on but again it is that the situation
right now Rafa and the release of
hostages that we need to deal with
immediately and hopefully there is going
to be some development in the next days
or perhaps weeks you said already that
the EU is not United right are
colleagues of yours who are not in favor
of a of a ceasefire you said also The
credibility of the international law is
actually at stake here and there's we
heard also the word hypocrisy mentioned
right if you look at Ukraine and how uh
people in Europe and and the leaders
have reacted compared to what's
happening now in Gaza so how how
important is it to have this credability
restored and what can you do to achieve
that so the narrative within the
European country Council goes like the
strength of the European Union lies in
its uni Unity so the more united the
more strong and we're trying to apply
the same rule to the Gaza situation as
well uh slowly slowly we're getting
forward but again I mean too many too
many lives were been lost already so I'm
not sure whether just looking for Unity
will help so that means the unilateral
or in small groups we will have to do
more you also involved your country in
an important case next week in the he
about uh uh the illegality of the
occupation of the Palestinian
territories Slovenia is also at the
Forefront of this case it also has to do
of course with the restoration of this
credibility of international law that
you've been talking about you're also
involved also in the reforms of the uh
Security Council un Security Council
where this veto has been hampering of
course any decisions how how is is that
looking you had meetings about this
today yeah well when it comes to the
reform on the security Council uh we
don't have time for that we need to act
immediately we need to find Solutions
within the existing framework and uh
leave the reform for better times I
don't think really right now is the
right timing for that when it comes to
the uh Judicial System we do believe
international law we strongly believe in
that and in in that regard we are we
also decided to uh join with advisory of
opinion uh on the practices in the
occupied territories and yes uh we will
try to do our best uh in that regard as
well thank you so much for your time
here in uh in Munich and of course these
discussions will still be ongoing and
not only today but also tomorrow we will
hear from the prime minister of qat
later today and also uh from the
president of Israel and that's de Von
from
Munich